Simplistic Boot2Root Write-Up
Challenge Overview

Name: Simplistic
Category: Boot2Root / Linux
Difficulty: Easy–Medium
Goal: Obtain root access and retrieve the final flag.

The machine was designed to test understanding of boot-time trust boundaries rather than network exploitation. No remote services were exposed, forcing a shift in mindset from traditional service-based attacks to local/physical access exploitation.

Initial Enumeration

After importing the OVA and booting the machine successfully, basic network enumeration was performed from the attacker (Kali) machine.

ip a

The attacker system was on the 192.168.56.0/24 subnet (VirtualBox host-only network).

A host discovery scan identified the target:

nmap -sn 192.168.56.0/24

Target identified: 192.168.56.100

Service Enumeration

A full TCP scan was executed:

nmap -sC -sV -p- 192.168.56.100

Result:

All ports filtered

No exposed network services

This confirmed that remote exploitation was not the intended entry point.

Local Access Analysis

The VM presented a local TTY login prompt. No credentials were provided in the challenge description.

Testing multiple usernames showed that the login mechanism did not clearly differentiate between valid and invalid users. No successful shell access was obtained via standard authentication.

Given:

No network services

No credentials

Console access available

The attack surface clearly shifted to boot-time misconfiguration.

Bootloader Exploitation (GRUB)

During reboot, the GRUB menu was accessible without any password protection.

This is a critical security issue, as GRUB controls kernel boot parameters.

Steps Taken:

Rebooted the VM

Held Shift to access GNU GRUB

Highlighted the default Ubuntu entry

Pressed e to edit boot parameters

Located the line starting with linux

Appended the following parameter at the end of the line:

init=/bin/bash

Booted using Ctrl + X

Root Shell Access

The system booted directly into a root shell without any authentication.

Indicators:

Prompt: root@(none):/#

Warnings about job control (expected when /bin/bash runs as PID 1)

At this stage, the root filesystem was mounted read-only.

Filesystem Remount

To enable full interaction with the system:

mount -o remount,rw /

This successfully remounted the root filesystem as read-write.

Privilege Verification
id

Output:

uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)

Confirmed full root privileges.

Flag Retrieval

Standard boot2root convention places the final flag in /root.

ls -l /root

A file named root.txt was found.

cat /root/root.txt

The flag was successfully retrieved.

Root Cause Analysis

This system was vulnerable due to:

Unprotected GRUB bootloader

Ability to edit kernel boot parameters

No disk encryption

Assumption that console/physical access is trusted

By replacing the init process (PID 1) with /bin/bash, the system never reached the authentication or authorization layers.
